---
title: Output
description: Learn about files generated with @hey-api/openapi-ts.
---

# Output

Every generated file in your output folder is created by a plugin. This page describes the default output, but similar logic applies to all plugins.

## Overview

If you use the default configuration, your [project](https://stackblitz.com/edit/hey-api-example?file=openapi-ts.config.ts,src%2Fclient%2Fschemas.gen.ts,src%2Fclient%2Fsdk.gen.ts,src%2Fclient%2Ftypes.gen.ts) might look like this.

```txt
my-app/
├── node_modules/
├── src/
│ ├── client/
│ │ ├── client/
│ │ ├── core/
│ │ ├── client.gen.ts
│ │ ├── index.ts
│ │ ├── sdk.gen.ts
│ │ └── types.gen.ts
│ └── index.ts
└── package.json
```

Your actual output depends on your Hey API configuration. It may contain a different number of files and their contents might differ.

Let's go through each file in the `src/client` folder and explain what it looks like, what it does, and how to use it.

## Client

`client.gen.ts` is generated by [client plugins](/openapi-ts/clients). If you choose to generate SDKs (enabled by default), we use the Fetch client unless specified otherwise.

::: code-group

```ts [client.gen.ts]
import { createClient, createConfig } from './client';

export const client = createClient(createConfig());
```

:::

The contents of this file are consumed by SDKs, but you can also import `client` in your application to perform additional configuration or send manual requests.

### Bundle

Client plugins provide their bundles inside `client` and `core` folders. The contents of these folders don't depend on the provided input. Everything inside these folders serves as a scaffolding so the generated code can make HTTP requests.

## TypeScript

You can learn more on the [TypeScript](/openapi-ts/plugins/typescript) page.

## SDK

You can learn more on the [SDK](/openapi-ts/plugins/sdk) page.

## Barrel File

`index.ts` is not generated by any specific plugin. It's meant for convenience and by default, it re-exports every artifact generated by default plugins (TypeScript and SDK).

::: code-group

```ts [index.ts]
export * from './sdk.gen';
export * from './types.gen';
```

:::

### Disable index file

We recommend importing artifacts from their respective files to avoid ambiguity, but we leave this choice up to you.

```ts
import type { Pet } from './client';
// or
import type { Pet } from './client/types.gen';
```

If you're not importing artifacts from the index file, you can skip generating it altogether by setting the `output.indexFile` option to `false`.

```js
export default {
  input: 'hey-api/backend', // sign up at app.heyapi.dev
  output: {
    indexFile: false, // [!code ++]
    path: 'src/client',
  },
};
```

### Re-export more files

You can choose which files should be re-exported by setting the `exportFromIndex` option to `true` on any plugin. For example, here's how you would re-export [Zod](/openapi-ts/plugins/zod) plugin exports.

```js
export default {
  input: 'hey-api/backend', // sign up at app.heyapi.dev
  output: 'src/client',
  plugins: [
    // ...other plugins
    {
      exportFromIndex: true, // [!code ++]
      name: 'zod',
    },
  ],
};
```

<!--@include: ../partials/examples.md-->
<!--@include: ../partials/sponsors.md-->
